db/lineage_conversions_meta.md, before:


# Lineage conversions table meta

This table comes from https://github.com/jodyphelan/tbdb/blob/master/barcode.bed

This is a barcode of all Fst = 1 SNPs generated by this paper - https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-020-00817-3

All the SNP data has been stripped out and so just the lineages data has been left. 

The SNPs have been identified as belonging to an "MTBC lineage" - i.e. column 1, and at some point the other lineage columns have been joined via a lookup table. We're not sure what this is or where this has come from, but it seems to be right. 

The supplementary material for this paper
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6814786/
contains a table which corresponds to our table (minus the RD numbers; they are referenced below), and also seems to reference the origins of the different systems. Column headers and reference for that table are as follows:


| MTBC lineage (1, 2) | LSP lineage (2) | Spoligotype family (4) |

1. Comas, I. et al. Human T cell epitopes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis are evolutionarily hyperconserved. Nat. Genet. 42, 498–503 (2010). 
2. Stucki, D. et al. Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage 4 comprises globally distributed and geographically restricted sublineages. Nat. Genet. 48, 1535–1543 (2016).
3. Gagneux, S. et al. Variable host-pathogen compatibility in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 103, 2869–2873 (2006).
4. Demay, C. et al. SITVITWEB – A publicly available international multimarker database for studying Mycobacterium tuberculosis genetic diversity and molecular epidemiology. Infect. Genet. Evol. 12, 755–766 (2012).

<img src=../img/Gagneux_DeRiemer_2006.png style="padding-right: 25px; padding-top: 25px;">

For a regions of difference-lineage conversion, see table 1 in **In silico region of difference (RD) analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex from sequence reads using RD-Analyzer**
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5093977/

Commit message:

added figure line and caption

db/lineage_conversions_meta.md, after:


# Lineage conversions table meta

This table comes from https://github.com/jodyphelan/tbdb/blob/master/barcode.bed This is a barcode of all Fst = 1 SNPs generated by this paper - https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-020-00817-3. All the SNP data has been stripped out and so just the lineages data has been left. 

The SNPs have been identified as belonging to an "MTBC lineage" - i.e. column 1, and at some point the other lineage columns have been joined via a lookup table. We're not sure what this is or where this has come from, but it seems to be right. 

The supplementary material for this paper
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6814786/
contains a table which corresponds to our table (minus the RD numbers; they are referenced below in the Faksri *et al* 2016 paper), and also seems to reference the origins of the different systems. Column headers and reference for that table are as follows:


| MTBC lineage (1, 2) | LSP lineage (2) | Spoligotype family (4) |

1. Comas, I. et al. Human T cell epitopes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis are evolutionarily hyperconserved. Nat. Genet. 42, 498–503 (2010). 
2. Stucki, D. et al. Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage 4 comprises globally distributed and geographically restricted sublineages. Nat. Genet. 48, 1535–1543 (2016).
3. Gagneux, S. et al. Variable host-pathogen compatibility in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 103, 2869–2873 (2006).
4. Demay, C. et al. SITVITWEB – A publicly available international multimarker database for studying Mycobacterium tuberculosis genetic diversity and molecular epidemiology. Infect. Genet. Evol. 12, 755–766 (2012).

For a regions of difference-lineage conversion, see table 1 in **In silico region of difference (RD) analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex from sequence reads using RD-Analyzer, Faksri *et al* 2016**
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5093977/

This figure is from **Variable host–pathogen compatibility in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Gagneux, DeRiemer *et al* 2006**  (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1413851/). Here the RD numbers and LSP (geographical) names are united in one figure. 
<img src=../img/Gagneux_DeRiemer_2006.png style="padding-right: 25px; padding-top: 25px;">
**Caption:** *The global population structure and geographical distribution of M. tuberculosis. (a) LSPs define a global phylogeny for M. tuberculosis. The names of the lineage-defining LSPs or regions of difference are shown in rectangles. The geographic regions associated with specific lineages are indicated. (b) The six main lineages of M. tuberculosis are geographically structured. Each dot corresponds to 1 of 80 countries represented in the global strain collection. The colors of the dots relate to the six main lineages defined in Fig. 1a and indicate the dominant lineage(s) in the respective countries.*
